# 2. Cryptographic Failures

## Cryptographic Failures

A cryptographic failure refers to any vulnerability arising from the misuse (or lack of use) of cryptographic algorithms for protecting sensitive information. Web applications require cryptography to provide confidentiality for their users at many levels.

Take, for example, a secure email application:

* When you are accessing your email account using your browser, you want to be sure that the communications between you and the server are encrypted. That way, any eavesdropper trying to capture your network packets won't be able to recover the content of your email addresses. When we encrypt the network traffic between the client and server, we usually refer to this as encrypting data in transit.\

* Since your emails are stored in some server managed by your provider, it is also desirable that the email provider can't read their client's emails. To this end, your emails might also be encrypted when stored on the servers. This is referred to as encrypting data at rest.

Cryptographic failures often end up in web apps accidentally divulging sensitive data. This is often data directly linked to customers (e.g. names, dates of birth, financial information), but it could also be more technical information, such as usernames and passwords.

At more complex levels, taking advantage of some cryptographic failures often involves techniques such as "Man in The Middle Attacks", whereby the attacker would force user connections through a device they control. Then, they would take advantage of weak encryption on any transmitted data to access the intercepted information (if the data is even encrypted in the first place). Of course, many examples are much simpler, and vulnerabilities can be found in web apps that can be exploited without advanced networking knowledge. Indeed, in some cases, the sensitive data can be found directly on the web server itself.

***

The most common way to store a large amount of data in a format easily accessible from many locations is in a database. This is perfect for something like a web application, as many users may interact with the website at any time. Database engines usually follow the Structured Query Language (SQL) syntax.\


In a production environment, it is common to see databases set up on dedicated servers running a database service such as MySQL or MariaDB; however, databases can also be stored as files. These are referred to as "flat-file" databases, as they are stored as a single file on the computer. This is much easier than setting up an entire database server and could potentially be seen in smaller web applications. let's focus instead on flat-file databases.

sqlite is a flat-file database. after we acquire a file.db we can get it's data with these commands.

<table><thead><tr><th>command</th><th>description</th><th data-hidden></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>.tables</code></td><td>listing tables</td><td></td></tr><tr><td><code>PRAGMA table_info([table]);</code></td><td>getting data about <code>[table]</code></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><code>select * from [table];</code></td><td>get the [table] records</td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>

we might find a set of username password pair. we can try and crack the passwords if they are hashed.
